Maxime Rio  5 Sep 2018 at 11:32\
**A note for future myself, that could be interesting for others (\@rob).**\
When setting up a new analysis machine, the data partition (traditionally `/mnt/data`) is a btrfs-based RAID.\
Few remarks about btrfs on Ubuntu 16.04 (root rights needed for the commands):\
- be careful, the usual command `mkfs.btrfs -L data /dev/<drive1> /dev/<drive2> ...`(where `<drive1>`, `<drive2>` etc. stands for the full drives used in the RAID pool) make a RAID0 (= no copy of data, space of all drives pulled together) not a redundant RAID1 or RAID10,\
- use `mkfs.btrfs -L data -d raid1 /dev/<drive1> /dev/<drive2> ...`to get RAID1 for data at creation time. Use `-m raid1` to get RAID1 for metadata too (seems to be the default actually).\
- to check the RAID type an usage, the command `btrfs filesystem usage /mnt/data` gives a nice summary\
- to change RAID type (after creation), use balancing operation `btrfs balance start -dconvert=raid1 -mconvert=raid1 /mnt/data` (here to convert data and metadata to RAID1). No need to unmount `/mnt/data` (thanks to the awesomeness of btrfs). It can take quite some time, so running the command in a `tmux` session or in background is in general a good idea.\
- btrfs-RAID1 just ensures that data is duplicated (2 copies), which is different from other conventional RAID1 (which keep N copies, N \>= 2). Apart from that, it is quite extensible, i.e. more drives can be added to a mounted partition (OK you still need to turn of the computer to add the drive, but you use the machine while the new drive is getting integrated to the RAID array, more awesomeness :-)). One can start using RAID1 with 2 drives.\
- On the contrary, RAID10 necessitates at least 4 drives. Depending on the benchmarks, RAID10 can seem faster\... check phoronix benchmarks for btrfs RAID configurations, there are updated from time to time. For now I would prefer RAID1, but maybe it\'s a not optimal call.\
- Finally, it seems that `df` command now reports sensible values for the available space on btrfs-RAID partitions (tip: `df -h`to get human readable values).\
That\'s it for now.
